[MUSIC]
>> Speaker 1: Is the Close button's
observable gone to, I'm thinking it's
still around if you click Close.
>> Jafar Husain: Good question.
What happened to the close observable?
Well, let's see where it lives.
It lives inside of this closure.
So as soon as this closure ends,
right, and, well,
not technically as soon as closure ends,
because we're
listening to searchFormCloses,
which is all listening to keypresses.
It's very difficult sometimes to figure
out if something's still in memory but
notice that as soon as this closer,
runs once, right?
We're going to begin
listening to keypresses and
keypresses is a global
event in the browser.
If you look up an event to keypresses,
it's there unless you come along and
remove it.
So even though this whole
function completes and
we've declared closeClicks
inside of this function,
you might expect that this observable
has gone away, but it hasn't.
It hasn't because it's chained off of
a closure of a closure of a closure of
a closure, holding on to keypresses.
Excuse me, to, yes, keypresses on the DOM
of that, that's still inside of the DOM.
So as long as that object is still inside
of the DOM, right, you're gonna have that
handler exist and it's going to be holding
onto indirectly this right here, right.
You can just follow the chain down and
see that because we're still listening to
keypresses, we're still
listening to searchFormCloses.
Does that make sense?
Yeah, another question?
>> Speaker 1: When does searchButtonClicks
for each get run so
that the do action gets fired?
>> Jafar Husain: It will get run as soon
as this whole operation is foreached over.
If I delete this, we haven't even hooked
up to the Close button or Search button or
anything for that matter.
>> Jafar Husain: Because
all we've done with this
whole expression here,
can get rid of the extra boilerplate code,
with this whole expression,
all we've done is create
an observable waiting to be called.
So I haven't done a thing, I haven't
looked up a single event handler.
It's all because of forEach and remember
we can go through the go around the table
and play the forEach onNext game again,
right.
But that's basically what's happened.
We've created an observable but
nobody's called forEach yet.
So it's just an object with a single
function waiting to be called.
Crossed my hands over that microphone.
Yep?
>> Speaker 1: What would be the best way
to test for open observables?
>> Jafar Husain: For
observables that have not yet
been unsubscribed?
Is that the question?
Right, so that can be challenging.
If you're trying to figure out if
an observable hasn't been unsubscribed,
it's difficult.
You could always go inside of
an observable that you own and
log the subscriptions and
then log the unsubscriptions, right.
So you could use do action, for example,
right, to log so, you can create
an observable that wraps around another
observable, and every single time forEach
is called they could just forward
on the forEach and then log open.
And then every single time an onCompleted
is called you could log close.
You could use do action on
the onCompleted to log close.
Do action doesn't have a function for,
onSubscribe.
But you could just create an observable
that just forwards the forEach call onto
another observable, to do that.
Yep.
>> Speaker 1: Could we use, take one, for
the searchOnCloseStream to
clean up those listeners?
>> Jafar Husain: We could.
But that's just gonna
end up being a no op.
I mean, it's going to end up being a no
op because that's what takeUntil does
under the hood.
Effectively it does, as soon as it gets
a single item out of searchFormCloses,
it call subscription.dispose
on searchFormCloses.
So then it stops listing
to searchFormCloses.
Now, granted, as soon as company
calls search again, right.
As soon as the search
button is clicked again,
this function will run all over again.
We will create closeClicks, an observable
which is based off of the close button
click, clicks, and then we'll create this
whole sub-expression all over again.
And then we'll be listening to that.
But in the meantime,
between a search and a close click,
did I break my example?
>> Jafar Husain: I broke my example.
>> Jafar Husain: In the meantime,
we shouldn't be listening
to that event all.
>> Jafar Husain: This was working.
That should work now.
>> Jafar Husain: Okay, so
between the search and the close click, as
soon as we hit close we're not listening,
and we proved that earlier we're not
listening to text box anymore right.
We're creating these observables but
then we're really throwing them away,
as soon as another item
comes through the stream.
And so in other words,
as soon as we click Search again,
we're creating a potentially
all those DOM elements again.
In this case we're just hiding them and
showing them, but as you can see,
wherever we're hiding and showing we could
actually be dynamically creating and
putting on screen those elements.
So it's safe to do that because we're also
making sure to unhook from the text box,
from the keypresses event.
So we won't just leak
event handlers everywhere.
So you will see the same pattern again and
again in user interfaces.
Some action causes a form to open,
that may contain one or
more asynchronous actions, right.
And you all want it to stop as soon as you
hit a Close button or that form closes.
And so that combination of switchLatest
and takeUntil will get you that
without ever having to worry about
explicitly unsubscribing from events.